OpenPANA is a free implementation of the PANA protocol (RFC 5191).
Is intended to be a multithreading solution, allowing multiple users.

							May 19, 2011
							Rafa Marín López
							Pedro Moreno Sánchez
							Francisco Vidal Meca,
							Universidad de Murcia

 This document describes the OpenPANA software suites.

o DIRECTORIES

  certs/ - Files needed for creating the certificates

  src/ - All the code, certs and example applications including client (PaC) and server (PAA)
  
  src/wpa_supplicant/ - WPA Supplicant's implementation done by Jouni Malinen ( http://hostap.epitest.fi )
  
  src/src - Hostapd extra files
  
  src/libeapstack/ - Implementation of the wrapper done from EAP library
  
  src/state_machines/ - Code implementing the conceptual state machines for PANA (RFC 5609)
  
  

o What is the OpenPANA?

 OpenPANA consists of free libraries and sample applications for PANA
 message exchange. 

o STANDARD REFERENCES

 Currently, OpenPANA supports the following specifications, but does not
 cover all details of them.

  PANA
    RFC5191 - "Protocol for Carrying Authentication for Network Access
             (PANA)"
    RFC5193 - "Protocol for Carrying Authentication for Network Access
             (PANA) Framework"
    RFC5609 - "State Machines for the Protocol for Carrying
              Authentication for Network Access (PANA)"

  EAP
    RFC3748 - "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)"
    RFC4137 - "State Machines for EAP Peer and Authenticator"

  EAP-PSK
    RFC4764 - "The EAP-PSK Protocol: A Pre-Shared Key Extensible
              Authentication Protocol (EAP) Method"

o Install

 1. OpenPANA probably requires following libraries:

  - OpennSSL library
    http://wwww.openssl.org

 2. Configuring OpenPANA:
    In order to change the default settings, you can modify the following files:
  	./src/configclient.h
  	./src/configserver.h

 3. Building the OpenPANA softwares:

  You can just run the 'autogen.sh', 'configure' script and 'make'.
  
 4. OpenPANA will need a working installation of a Radius Server using EAP-TLS method.
    OpenPANA will require the following certificate files in ./src application's folder:
    	- ca.pem 
    	- client.pem
    	- client.pk8 (Can be obtained from client.key using: openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -in client.key -out client.pk8 -nocrypt
  
   An example of certificates and a working eap.conf (to use with freeRadius) can be found in radius_conf folder of svn root.
   
 5. After all you have PaC and PAA in the ./src application's folder.
 
o Contact Points

 Informations about OpenPANA are available at the project's web site:

  http://openpana.sourceforge.net

 If you have any questions about OpenPANA, you can ask to the mailing
 list: openapana-users@list.sourceforge.net

 Or mailto: f.vidalmeca@um.es , p.morenosanchez@um.es or rafa@um.es

o  License 

 Basically this software suites follows the GNU GPL v3 license.
 In short, the code is freely available but with
 no warranty.


o Initial Authors

	Rafa Marín López	- Universidad de Murcia
	Pedro Moreno Sánchez	- Universidad de Murcia
	Francisco Vidal Meca	- Universidad de Murcia


o Acknowledgments

 Yosihiro Ohba - Toshiba
 Jouni Malinen - Hostapd implementation
